The Qutub Minar in Delhi is a towering landmark which never fails to fascinate visitors. And why not! After all, it’s not every day that you come across an 
 architectural masterpiece that boasts of being the world’s tallest brick tower and has remained so for more than 800 years.

The magnificent Qutub Minar has a height of 73 meters. It has a base diameter of 14.3 meters which narrows down to 2.7 meters at the top. The structure also 
includes a spiral staircase of 379 steps. There are many other historical edifices around the minaret which, together with the main tower, form the Qutub Minar 
Complex.

It is widely believed that the tower, which displays early Afghan architectural style, was built taking inspiration from the Minaret of Jam in Afghanistan. 
Each of the five distinct stories of the minaret is adorned with a projecting balcony supported by intricately designed brackets. While the first three stories 
are built in pale red sandstone, the fourth one is purely made of marble, and the fifth one is a mix of marble and sandstone. The architectural styles from the 
base to the top also differ, thanks to the many rulers who constructed it part by part.

There are bands of inscriptions on different sections of Qutub Minar that narrate its history. Carved verses adorn the inside of the tower.

Today, this monument is a popular tourist attraction in Delhi and a part of the Qutub Minar Complex. It is also one of the UNESCO World Heritage Sites in Delhi, 
a status granted to it in 1993 for its historical importance and architectural brilliance.

Qutub Festival, an annual cultural event, is held at this complex every year during the month of November-December. This three-day long festival witnesses a 
lively gathering and various mind-blowing performances by musicians, dancers, and artists.

The Qutub Minar complex is under the protection of the Archeological Survey of India under its Delhi circle of monuments.
Want to know more about Qutub Minar, Click this link https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Qutb_Minar
