Mughal emperor Shah Jahan, the creator of the Taj Mahal, said that the beauty of the monument made "the sun and the moon shed tears from their eyes". It has also been described as a "teardrop on the cheek of eternity" by Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore.  Every year, thousands of tourists from around the world make a beeline for this breathtakingly ethereal marble monument, considerd by many as the most beautiful building constructed by man. The monument was built as a memorial by Mughal emperor Shah Jahan for his deceased wife, Mumtaz Mahal. It is one of the seven wonders of the world and is a monument of pride for not just Agra but also India.
The Taj Mahal is considered to be the greatest architectural achievement in the whole range of Indo-Islamic architecture. Its recognised architectonic beauty has a rhythmic combination of solids and voids, concave and convex and light shadow; such as arches and domes further increases the aesthetic aspect. The colour combination of lush green scape reddish
pathway and blue sky over it show cases the monument in ever changing tints and moods. The relief work in marble and
inlay with precious and semi precious stones make it a monument apart.
The Taj Mahal is located on the right bank of the Yamuna River in a vast Mughal garden that encompasses nearly 17 hectares,
in the Agra District in Uttar Pradesh. It was built by Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan in memory of his wife Mumtaz Mahal with
construction starting in 1632 AD and completed in 1648 AD, with the mosque, the guest house and the main gateway on the
south, the outer courtyard and its cloisters were added subsequently and completed in 1653 AD. The existence of several
historical and Quaranic inscriptions in Arabic script have facilitated setting the chronology of Taj Mahal. For its
construction, masons, stone-cutters, inlayers, carvers, painters, calligraphers, dome builders and other artisans were
requisitioned from the whole of the empire and also from the Central Asia and Iran. Ustad-Ahmad Lahori was the main
architect of the Taj Mahal.
Want to know more about Taj Mahal? click this link
 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taj_Mahal
